Introduce a guide to processing data (#564)
thoughtbot/guides: data/README.md

# Data

A guide for managing a series of tubes.

## Best Practices

* Use stream processing for data which is not guaranteed to fit into memory.

### Streaming

* Avoid automatic retries for non-idempotent operations.

> * Avoid storing messages with different schemas in the same topic or message

Reviewer: "Topic" is referenced a couple of times here - would it be worth defining it in the glossary?

Author: I added some glossary entries for these in 7cf2746.

  queue.
* Keep messages as small as possible.
* Use as few distinct resources (CPU, Postgres, S3, HTTP requests) as possible
  in each consumer.
* Use at least once delivery with idempotent operations.
* Use at most once delivery with non-idempotent operations.
* Use constant memory to process streams when feasible.

> * When one message would perform more than on operation, instead have that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When one message would perform more than one operation, instead have that
```

  message append a new message for each operation.
* When reading from the same queue with more than one consumer, ensure that it's
  acceptable to process messages from that queue out of order.
* When partitioning messages in a single topic, ensure that it's acceptable for
  messages from different partitions to be processed out of order.

## Glossary

*Data Engineering*: the task of building infrastructure and process for
ingesting, processing, and aggregating data so that it can be displayed to users
or made available to data scientists.

> *Data Science*: the practice of using statistics, machine learning, and other

Reviewer 2: For those who, like me, didn't understand that stats and ML were different, this one person wrote a (slightly ranty) article explaining the difference: https://towardsdatascience.com/the-actual-difference-between-statistics-and-machine-learning-64b49f07ea3

Author: :+1:

tools to analyze data to discover trends and truths that can be used to provide
business intelligence.

*Batch Processing*: processing large amounts of data at once. This is acceptable

> for smaller amounts of data and can be simpler in terms of engineering and

Reviewer 2: Do you mind this terminology?

```suggestion
for smaller amounts of data and can be simpler in terms of development and
```

deployment. Some batch processes can also be useful for "recomputing the world"
when you want to analyze existing data in a new way.

*Data Streaming*: processing data in small chunks, one at a time, rather than
processing all data at once. Streaming is necessary for processing infinite
event streams. It's also useful for processing large amounts of data, because it
prevents memory overflows during processing and makes it easier to process data

> in a distributed manner or real-time manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in a distributed or real-time manner.
```

> *Real-time*: analyzing data and delivering results simultaneously so that stream

Reviewer 2: This is "soft real time", as opposed to hard real time?

Author: Yes - "real time" is an almost worthless term because of how widely expectation for "real" varies, but it comes up often enough that it seemed useful to describe.

output is always visible. For example, real-time analytics will mean that the
system is constantly processing events (clicks, purchases, etc) and displaying
the latest results in a user interface.

*Parallel Processing*: performing multiple tasks at the same time, for example
on different cores or processors. Parallel processing is necessary in order to

> perform more than one computation at once, such as parsing or aggregation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
perform more than one computation at once; common uses are parsing or aggregation.
```

*Concurrent Processing*: managing multiple ongoing tasks at once without
necessarily processing more than one task in the same exact moment. Concurrent
processing is required in order to perform more than one effect at once, such as
waiting for multiple network requests to complete.

*Constant Memory*: processing a stream where the amount of memory required does
not increase with the size of the stream.

> *At Least Once Delivery*: a guarantee that a given message will delivered at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*At Least Once Delivery*: a guarantee that a given message will be delivered at
```

least once, but may be delivered more than once. This is achieved in Kafka by
committing an offset after it's been fully processed and in RabbitMQ by
acknowledging a message after fully processing it.

*At Most Once Delivery*: a guarantee that a message will never be delivered more
than once, but may not be delivered at all. This is achieved in Kafka by
committing an offset before fully processing a message and in RabbitMQ by
acknowledging a message before fully processing it.

*Distributed Data Processing*: breaking up data into partitions so that large
amounts of data can be processed by many machines simultaneously.

*Cluster*: several computers (or virtual machines) grouped together to perform a
single task.

*Scala*: a programming language (like Ruby, Python, or JavaScript) which is fast
and has become popular for data-focused tasks. Scala runs on the Java Virtual

> Machine, which is a high-performance engine for running languages like Scala

Reviewer 2: You are being very kind to the JVM here.

Author: It seemed impolite to mention type erasure or embarrassing start-up latency.

that compile into bytecode.

*Type Safety*: languages that provide type safety (such as Scala) check the

> program for possible errors when compiling, which allows developers to prevent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
program for possible errors as part of the compilation process, which allows developers to prevent
```

(Hooray for pedantry.)

Machine, which is a high-performance engine for running languages like Scala
that compile into bytecode.

*Type Safety*: languages that provide type safety (such as Scala) check the
program for possible errors as part of the compilation process, which allows developers to prevent
many types of bugs before being deployed.

*Spark*: a distributed computing engine for big data and data streams. Spark is
a Scala-focused framework for data engineering and data science.

*Kafka*: a distributed commit log for data streams. Many of the large data
systems deployed today use Kafka.

*Record Stream*: a stream where each message is an independent, unique record
which does not replace a previous record in the stream.

*Changelog Stream*: a stream where each message represents the latest state for
a particular entity.

*Topic*: in Kafka, a partitioned, append-only log of messages which can be
consumed in order by partition.

*Partition*: in Kafka, a way of breaking the messages of a topic into groups
which can be consumed in parallel by one or more workers.

*Queue*: in RabbitMQ, messages sent to an exchange are placed on a queue.

> Messages on a queue can be consumed in parallel by one or more workers.

Reviewer 3: A few more terms for consideration to add:

```
*Consumer*: An application or process that reads from a data stream.

*Producer*: An application or process that writes to a data stream.
```

Author: Thanks! Added in 1d12c71.
